Title: Dr. Jeffrey Zhang's paper has been published online! 🎉
Category: news
Date: 2024-07-10
Slug: jeffrey-amiais-paper-published
Tags: paper
Summary: Dr. Jeffrey Zhang's paper **A Study of Biomedical Relation Extraction Using GPT Models** has been published online!


Dr. Jeffrey Zhang's paper **A Study of Biomedical Relation Extraction Using GPT Models** has been published online. You can find more information in PubMed: PMID: [38827097](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38827097/), PMCID: [PMC11141827](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC11141827/).

## Abstract
 
Relation Extraction (RE) is a natural language processing (NLP) task for extracting semantic relations between biomedical entities. Recent developments in pre-trained large language models (LLM) motivated NLP researchers to use them for various NLP tasks. We investigated GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4 on extracting the relations from three standard datasets, EU-ADR, Gene Associations Database (GAD), and ChemProt. Unlike the existing approaches using datasets with masked entities, we used three versions for each dataset for our experiment: a version with masked entities, a second version with the original entities (unmasked), and a third version with abbreviations replaced with the original terms. We developed the prompts for various versions and used the chat completion model from GPT API. Our approach achieved a F1-score of 0.498 to 0.809 for GPT-3.5-turbo, and a highest F1-score of 0.84 for GPT-4. For certain experiments, the performance of GPT, BioBERT, and PubMedBERT are almost the same.